Be the first to share what you think!
A heteronym is a word that has the same spelling but a different meaning to another word. The following poem is taken from here
No comments yet
This tenor sang a lovely lied - but lied, And for that naughty deed, the lie, he died. For all his lies we loved the singer well - Now he lies toasted by the Singer's fires in Hell. They sow not neither shall they reap - A sow that farrows shall her piglets keep.
A bass might eat a bass when dining on the town
A bass might eat the bass if the singer chanced to drown.
Heteronyms can also occur in non-alphabetic languages. For example, the Chinese character 行 can be pronounced háng, meaning "profession", or xíng, meaning "OK".
In linguistics, a heteronym (also known as a heterophone) is a word that is written identically but has a different pronunciation and meaning. In other words, they are homographs that are not homophones. Thus, row (propel with oars) and row (argument) are heteronyms, but mean (intend) and mean (average) are not (since they are pronounced the same). Heteronym pronunciation may vary in vowel realisation, in stress pattern (see also Initial-stress-derived noun), or in other ways:
There was a row among the oarsmen about how to row.
The dump was so full that it had to refuse more refuse.
Most heteronyms are doubles. Triple heteronyms are extremely rare
Two examples, sin and mobile, are listed below. Proper nouns can sometimes be heteronyms. For example, the final syllable of [Oregon](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Oregon_(disambiguation)) is pronounced like the word in by residents of that state in the United States, while in the name of the village of Oregon in Wisconsin, the final syllable is pronounced like the word on. Other examples include local pronunciations of Cairo, GA, Versailles, KY, and Milan, TN. There are also pairs which include both initialisms and regular words, e.g., US and us. [citation needed]
How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?
I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.
The buck does funny things when does are present.
Image i - Euler diagram showing the relationships between heteronyms and related linguistic concepts.
I did not object to the object.
He thought it was time to present the present.
If it weren't as consistent as it is, there would be no spelling bees, and kids wouldn't ask for language of origin. Of course, if it weren't for that 15% inconsistency, there'd be no point to a spelling bee, which is why they're really only fun in English.
We must polish the Polish furniture.
For bow (take a bow) and for bow (bow and arrow)
"Heterophone" literally just means "different sound", and this term is sometimes applied to words that are just pronounced differently, irrespective of their spelling. Such a definition would obviously include virtually every pair of words in the language, so "heterophone" in this sense is normally restricted to instances where there is some particular reason to highlight the different sound. For example, puns normally involve homophones, but in the case of heterophonic (or imperfect) puns, the two words sound different, and yet similar enough for one to suggest the other (for example, mouth and mouse).
[Heteronym (linguistics)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Heteronym%20(linguistics)):
After a number of injections my jaw got number.
The weather was beginning to affect his affect
They were too close to the door to close it.
Interesting: ^Homophone | ^Heterophony | ^Homonym
He could lead if he would get the lead out.
The farm was used to produce produce.
With every number I read, my mind gets number and number.
The wind was too strong to wind the sail.
A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line.
Is there a functional reason?
Do you know what a buck does to does?
To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.
Don't desert me here in the desert!
When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.
Upon seeing the tear in the painting I shed a tear.
The insurance was invalid for the invalid.
Because in English, the written characters have almost nothing to do with the way words are pronounced (video).
They're just different words, with completely different etymologies.
What makes the change in the way the " o " sound between bow ( as in take a bow) and bow ( as in bow and arrow)?
The bandage was wound around the wound.
A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.
Parent commenter can toggle ^NSFW or ^delete. Will also delete on comment score of -1 or less. | FAQs | ^Mods | Magic ^Words
Actually, English is surprisingly consistent, phonetically, overall (estimates range around 85%). The problem is that the English language is comprised of over five source languages, and the pronunciation of a word depends on that source language. Of course that's not the case for all homophones and homographs, but it is the case for the vast majority.
Edit: ugh, really embarrassing spelling error
Richard J. Alexander notes two additional forms which puns may take: graphological (sometimes called visual) puns, such as concrete poetry
And [morphological](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Morphology(linguistics))_ puns, such as portmanteaus.
/*# sourceMappingURL=IdCard.85c0cd6f6bfd60e02cd8.css.map*/", altering the common phrase "non-profit institution". Similarly, the joke "Question: Why do we still have troops in Germany? Answer: To keep the Russians in Czech" relies on the aural ambiguity of the homophones "check" and "Czech". Often, puns are not strictly homophonic, but play on words of similar, not identical, sound as in the example from the "Pinky and the Brain" cartoon film series: "I think so, Brain, but if we give peas a chance, won't the lima beans feel left out?" which plays with the similar—but not identical—sound of "peas" and "peace".
A false etymology (pseudoetymology, paraetymology or paretymology), sometimes called folk etymology although this is also a technical term in linguistics, is a specious (plausible but false) belief about the origins of specific words, often originating in "common-sense" assumptions. Because of their specious "obviousness", many are widely held.
I would call this metaphorical extension, or radiated meaning.
"Space" (Spice) in certain accents:
Customer: "I'd like a Caesar salad."
Visual puns are used in many logos, emblems, insignia, and other graphic symbols, in which one or more of the pun aspects are replaced by a picture. In European heraldry, this technique is called canting arms. Visual and other puns and word games are also common in Dutch gable stones as well as in some cartoons, such as Lost Consonants and The Far Side.
-ms-flex-flow:row nowrap
Flex-flow:row nowrap
Flex:1 1 auto
-ms-flex-flow:row nowrap
Interesting: Big ^Pun | Canting ^arms | Punjab, ^India | Word ^play
What's the word for when I'm imposing the hereditary meanings of a word's roots upon the word?
Spice...The final frontier. So much flavour!—Space, on the other hand, is mostly devoid of flavour and matter.
"The Nail River" (The Nile River) in certain accents:
Interesting: Folk ^etymology | List of common false ^etymologies | ^Etymology | ^Acronym
A homographic pun exploits words which are spelled the same (homographs) but possess different meanings and sounds. Because of their nature, they rely on sight more than hearing, contrary to homophonic puns. They are also known as heteronymic puns. Examples in which the punned words typically exist in two different parts of speech often rely on unusual sentence construction, as in the anecdote: "When asked to explain his large number of children, the pig answered simply: 'The wild oats of my sow gave us many piglets.' " An example which combines homophonic and homographic punning is Douglas Adams's line "You can tune a guitar, but you can't tuna fish. Unless of course, you play bass." The phrase uses the homophonic qualities of "tune a" and "tuna", as well as the homographic pun on "bass", in which ambiguity is reached through the identical spellings of /ˈbeɪs/ (a string instrument), and /ˈbæs/ (a kind of fish.
"Caesar salad" (Scissor salad) in an Italian accent:
Can you try asking your question again, but trying a little less hard?
By any chance do you mean using the archaic sense of the word, rather than the modern definition of it?
Such etymologies often have the feel of urban legends, and can be much more colorful than the typical etymologies found in dictionaries, often involving stories of unusual practices in particular subcultures (e.g. Oxford students from non-noble families being supposedly forced to write sine nobilitate by their name, soon abbreviated to s.nob., hence the word snob).   Many recent examples are "backronyms" (acronyms made up to explain a term), as in "snob", and "posh" for "port outward, starboard homeward"
Many other sourced examples are listed in the article on backronyms.
A compound pun is a statement that contains two or more puns. For example, a complex statement by Richard Whately includes four puns: "Why can a man never starve in the Great Desert? Because he can eat the sand which is there. But what brought the sandwiches there? Why, Noah sent Ham, and his descendants mustered and bred."  This pun uses "sand which is there/sandwiches there", "[Ham](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ham_(son_of_Noah))/ham", "mustered/mustard", and "bred/bread". Similarly, the phrase "Piano is not my Forte" cleverly links two meanings of the words "forte" and "piano", one for the dynamic markings in music and the second for the literal meaning of the sentence. Compound puns may also combine two phrases that share a word. For example, "Where do mathematicians go on weekends? To a Möbius strip club!" puns on Möbius strip and strip club.
Dictionary Readers
Searchers Online
Not really. I'm thinking of something like "derivative" or "emergent" (with respect to the roots, of course).
Section 1. Typology of article  Pun:
Italian waiter: "Sir! Are you sure you want the Scissor salad? You'll cut your mouth!"
Homonymic puns, another common type, arise from the exploitation of words which are both homographs and homophones. The statement "Being in politics is just like playing golf: you are trapped in one bad lie after another" puns on the two meanings of the word lie as "a deliberate untruth" and as "the position in which something rests". An adaptation of a joke repeated by Isaac Asimov gives us "Did you hear about the little moron who strained himself while running into the screen door?" playing on "strained" as "to give much effort" and "to filter".  A homonymic pun may also be polysemic, in which the words must be homonymic and also possess related meanings, a condition which is often subjective. However, lexicographers define polysemes as listed under a single dictionary [lemma](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lemma_(morphology)) (a unique numbered meaning) while homonyms are treated in separate lemmata.
A recursive pun is one in which the second aspect of a pun relies on the understanding of an element in the first. For example the statement "π is only half a pie." (π radians is 180 degrees. Another example is "Infinity is not in finity", which means infinity is not in finite range. Another example is "A Freudian slip is when you say one thing but mean your mother."  Finally, we are given "Immanuel doesn't pun, he Kant" by Oscar Wilde [citation needed].
False etymology:
Parent commenter can toggle ^NSFW or ^delete. Will also delete on comment score of -1 or less. | FAQs | ^Mods | Magic ^Words
Never take your raft down the nail river. It'll pop instantly.
Puns can be classified in various ways:
Q: What was the name of the first group of female astronauts? A: The Space Girls.
"sans clothing". Lulz
Just to illustrate with a contrived example: suppose that I am a facetious person, and when I say "I am a gymnast", I'm jokingly referring to activities done sans clothing.
Another type of visual pun exists in languages which use non-phonetic writing. For example, in Chinese, a pun may be based on a similarity in shape of the written character, despite a complete lack of phonetic similarity in the words punned upon.  Mark Elvin describes how this "peculiarly Chinese form of visual punning involved comparing written characters to objects".
-ms-flex:0 0 auto
Flex:0 0 auto
Some words are homophones only if spoken in certain accents. Here are some examples of puns that depend on being pronounced in a particular accent:
Perhaps an 'etymological homonymic pun'?
All puns are wordplay, not all wordplay are puns. SAY IT AGAIN! OUT LOUD! NOT ALL WORDPLAY ARE PUNS!
A pun, specifically, is the humorous use of a word or words (humorous is, of course, subjective) in such a way as to suggest different meanings or applications - OR - the use of words that have the same or nearly the same sound but different meanings. Yes, different parts of speech count.
Why should you never trust a train? They have loco motives.
Why can't bicycles stand up on their own? Since they are 2 tired.
I met some aliens from outer space. They were pretty down to earth.
There’s a fine line between the numerator and the denominator.
The bomb didn't want to go off. So it refused.
Did you hear about the circus that caught on fire? It was in tents.
What happened when the magician got mad? She pulled her hare out!
I had a real problem making a hard-boiled egg this morning until I cracked it.
The earth's rotation really makes my day.
Why did one banana spy on the other? Because she was appealing.
If they do I will add puns weekly
Thank you. these will make my mother groan in agony
Want to hear a joke about paper? Nevermind it’s tearable.
Simba, you're falling behind. I must ask you to Mufasa.
What did the alien say to the pitcher of water? Take me to your liter.
Saving for first impressions with women.
Going to bed with music on gave him sound sleep.
Did you hear about the guy who lost the left side of his body? He's alright now.
Love this list
What does a house wear? A dress.
The old woman who lived in a shoe wasn’t the sole owner,there were strings attached.
I told my friend she drew her eyebrows too high. She seemed surprised.
Some aquatic mammals at the zoo escaped. It was otter chaos.
I heard that the post office was a male dominated industry.
Never discuss infinity with a mathematician, they can go on about it forever.
What’s america’s favorite soda? Mini soda.
A bartender broke up with her boyfriend, but he kept asking her for another shot.
Why does Superman gets invited to dinners? Because he is a Supperhero.
I saw an ad for burial plots, and thought to myself this is the last thing I need.
How much does a hipster weigh? An instagram.
What do you call a fake noodle? An Impasta.
Why don’t cannibals eat clowns? Because they taste funny.
Why is a skeleton a bad liar? You can see right through it.
Why couldn’t the dead car drive into the cluttered garage? Lack of vroom.
Do you know where you can get chicken broth in bulk? The stock market.
Yesterday a clown held the door for me. It was a nice jester.
I used to make clown shoes… which was no small feat.
Do you know sign language? You should learn it, it’s pretty handy.
The soldier who survived mustard gas and pepper spray was a seasoned veteran.
I flipped a coin over an issue the other day, it was quite the toss-up.
You know why I like egg puns? They crack me up!
Want to hear a pizza joke? Nevermind, it’s too cheesy.
Jill broke her finger today, but on the other hand she was completely fine.
The magazine about ceiling fans went out of business due to low circulation.
Amazing list.
What happens to nitrogen when the sun comes up? It becomes daytrogen.
My cat was just sick on the carpet, I don’t think it’s feline well.
What do you call a line of rabbits marching backwards? A receding hairline.
If I buy a bigger bed will I have more or less bedroom?
I used to be afraid of hurdles, but I got over it.
Why isn’t suntanning an Olympic sport? Because the best you can ever get is bronze.
A man sued an airline company after it lost his luggage. Sadly, he lost his case.
If I got paid in lots of Pennes I would make loads of pasta.
The chicken coop only had 2 doors since if it had 4 doors it would be a sedan.
I used to work at a hairdresser but i just wasn’t cut out for it.
What do you call a cow with all of its legs? High steaks.
I wondered why the baseball was getting bigger. Then it hit me.
Nice. 2 duplicates though (that I’ve noticed so far): Bison and Planet.
What do you call a young musician? A minor.
How do mountains see? They peak.
Sausage puns are the wurst.
What does a dog say when he sits down on a piece of sandpaper? Ruff!
I relish the fact that you’ve mustard the strength to ketchup to me.
If Donald Trump becomes president, America is going toupee.
What’s it called when you put a cow in an elevator? Raising the steaks.
Imagine if alarm clocks hit you back in the morning.It would be truly alarming.
Did you hear about the human cannonball? Too bad he got fired!
When does a farmer dance? When he drops the beet.
Under the doctor’s advice, the hen is laying off eggs for a few weeks.
There’s a new type of broom out, it’s sweeping the nation.
When the church relocated it had an organ transplant.
That reckless little egg always seems to egg-celerate when he sees the light turn yellow.
Hopefully this egg pun doesn't make your brain too fried or scrambled.
Did you hear about the invention of the white board? It was remarkable.
Why did the lion eat the tightrope walker? He wanted a well-balanced meal!
You belong in a pun-itentiary! Haha but seriously though, things like this are the reason I love the internet. In the immortal words of Jenna Marbles "This is the internet I signed up for!"
What do you call a belt with a watch on it? A waist of time.
I changed my iPod name to Titanic. It’s syncing now.
I got a master’s degree in being ignored
No one seems to care.
Why don’t some couples go to the gym? Because some relationships don’t work out.
What happens when you eat too many spaghettiOs? You have a vowel movement.
Can February March? No, but April May.
Why does the singer of Cheap Thrills not want us to Sia?
I asked my friend, Nick, if he had 5 cents I could borrow. But he was Nicholas.
What did the Buffalo say to his little boy when he dropped him off at school? Bison.
The display of still-life art was not at all moving!
I cut my finger chopping cheese, but I think that I may have greater problems.
The wedding was so emotional even the cake was in tiers.
Time flies like an arrow. Fruit flies like a banana.
Getting the ability to fly would be so uplifting.
I couldn’t remember how to throw a boomerang but it came back to me.
A doctor broke his leg while auditioning for a play.Luckily he still made the cast.
What do you call a girl with one leg that's shorter than the other? Ilene.
Why did the tomato turn red? Because it saw the salad dressing.
What do you call a bear with no teeth? A gummy bear.
What did daddy spider say to baby spider? You spend too much time on the web.
Why can’t you take inventory in Afghanistan? Because of the tally ban.
I had a pun about insanity but then I lost it.
People say i look better without glasses but i just can't see it.
I thought I saw a spider on my laptop, but my friend said it was just a bug.
After the accident, the juggler didn’t have the balls to do it.
A cross eyed teacher couldn’t control his pupils.
Why does the man want to buy nine rackets? Cause tennis too many.
I used to work in a shoe recycling shop. It was sole destroying.
How does a penguin build it’s house? Igloos it together.
Did you hear about the pun that was actually funny? Neither have we.
At my boxing club there is only one punch bag. I hate waiting for the punch line!
Why are frogs so happy? They eat whatever bugs them.
If you wear cowboy clothes are you ranch dressing?
I hate negative numbers and will stop at nothing to avoid them.
Why didn’t the lion win the race? Because he was racing a cheetah.
Have you ever tried to eat a clock? It's very time consuming.
A hen will always leave her house through the proper eggs-it.
Before my father died he worked in a circus as a stilt walker. I used to look up to him.
Better pun. Have you heard of the band Suran Suran? They mostly wrap.
This is not alcohol, water you thinking?!
What kind of car does a sheep drive? Their SuBAHHru.
One hat says to the other, "You stay here, I’ll go on a head."
I would avoid the sushi if I was you. It’s a little fishy.
Why is Kylo Ren so angry? Beause he’s always Ben Solo.
Two ropes were walking in a tough neighborhood and one of them was a-frayed.
The tale of the haunted refrigerator was chilling.
Read enough of our funny puns, and you'll be punstoppable.
A persistent banker wouldn’t stop hitting on me so I asked him to leave me a loan.
What do you call crystal clear urine? 1080pee.
I got hit in the head with a can of soda? Luckily it was a soft drink.
My phone has to wear glasses ever since it lost its contacts.
Old skiers never die. They just go down hill.
Sleeping comes so naturally to me, I could do it with my eyes closed.
The sub killer
Good idea
What do you do with a dead chemist? You barium.
It takes guts to make a sausage.
Our maintenance guy lost his legs on the job, now he’s just a handyman.
Why do trees have so many friends? They branch out.
How many tickles does it take to make an octopus laugh? Ten tickles.
I just don't even know what to say, this is amazing and I read the whole entire thing.
What was Forrest Gump’s email password? 1forrest1.
I feel sorry for shopping carts. They’re always getting pushed around.
If artists wear sketchers do linguists wear converse?
Did you hear about the crime in the parking garage? It was wrong on so many levels.
The safe was invented by a cop and a robber. It was quite a combination.
I did a theatrical performance on puns. It was a play on words.
Atheism is a non-prophet organisation.
I smeared some ketchup all over my eyes once. It was a bad idea in Heinz- sight.
So what if I don’t know what apocalypse means? It’s not the end of the world!
After eating the ship, the sea monster said, I can’t believe I ate the hull thing.
On Halloween October is nearly Octover.
What cheese can never be yours? Nacho cheese.
How do trees access the internet? They log on.
If people ask how many puns I made in Germany I reply, "nein"
Two peanuts were walking in a tough neighborhood and one of them was a-salted.
The best time of day to eat eggs is at the crack of dawn.
What do cows tell each other at bedtime? Dairy tales.
Cartoonist found dead in home. Details are sketchy.
An untalented gymast walks into a bar.
Why are there fences on graveyards? Because people are dying to get in.
I, for one, like Roman numerals.
I never understood odorless chemicals, they never make scents.
Why is metal and a microwave a match made in heaven?  When they met, sparks flew.
I heard Donald Trump is going to ban shredded cheese, and make America grate again.
What do you call a beautiful pumpkin? GOURDgeous.
The energizer bunny went to jail. He was charged with battery.
What do prisoners use to call each other? Cell phones.
What do you mean June is over? Julying.
I dissected an iris today. It was an eye-opening experience.
What do you do when balloons are hurt? You helium.
What do you call a cow with two legs? Lean beef.
The plane flight brought my acrophobia to new heights.
Lettuce take a moment to appreciate this salad pun.
What’s it called when you have too many aliens? Extraterrestrials.
The scarecrow get promoted because he was outstanding in his field.
The man who ate too many eggs was considered to be an egg-oholic.
Let me FILL you in on my trip to the dentist.
The one day of the week that eggs are definitely afraid of is Fry-day.
Don't ever have multiple people wash dishes together. It's hard for them to stay in sink.
Yes, this is an amazing list.  I'm commenting so I can find the punny list of dad jokes again.
I really look up to my tall friends.
People at work demand a joke of the day. Thank you. There will be pain.
I bought a wooden whistle but it wooden whistle.
To write with a broken pencil is pointless.
Have you ever heard of a music group called Cellophane? They mostly wrap.
Garbage collectors are rubbish drivers!
People using umbrellas always seem to be under the weather.
What kind of shoes do ninjas wear? Sneakers.
Novice pirates make terrible singers because they can’t hit the high seas.
How was Rome split in two? With a pair of Ceasars.
Don’t judge a meal by the look of the first course. It’s very souperficial.
Models of dragons are not to scale.
All the hens consider the chef to be very mean because he beats the eggs.
Why shouldn’t you trust atoms? They make up everything.
STOP THE PUN-ISHMENT
I was addicted to the hokey pokey but I turned myself around.
The future,the present and the past walked into a bar.Things got a little tense.
These reversing cameras are great. Since I got one I haven’t looked back.
When the scientist wanted to clone a deer, he bought a doe it yourself kit.
I owe a lot to the sidewalks. They’ve been keeping me off the streets for years.
When a clock is hungry, it goes back four seconds.
Why don’t vampires go to barbecues? They don’t like steak.
I just found out I'm colorblind. The diagnosis came completely out of the purple.
My new diet consists of aircraft, its a bit plane.
Don’t trust people that do acupuncture, they’re back stabbers.
I read a book on anti-gravity. I couldn’t put it down.
I went to a seafood disco last week... and pulled a mussel.
Why did the cookie cry? Because his father was a wafer so long!
Smaller babies may be delivered by stork but the heavier ones need a crane.
A backwards poem writes inverse.
How does Moses make coffee? Hebrews it.
I used to go fishing with Skrillex but he kept dropping the bass.
Pig puns are so boaring.
The soundtrack for Blackfish was orcastrated.
Long fairy tales have a tendency to dragon.
The show was called Spongebob Squarepants but everyone knows the star was Patrick.
He couldn’t work out how to fix the washing machine so he threw in the towel.
Where do you imprison a skeleton? In a rib cage.
Groaning Now
I ordered a book of puns last week, but i didn't get it.
How do you organize an outer space party? You planet.
Traveling on a flying carpet is a rugged experience.
Want to hear a pun about ghosts? That's the spirit!
What does Superman have in his drink? Just ice.
Why was dumbo sad? He felt irrelephant.
What do you do to an open wardrobe? You closet.
What do you call a cow with no legs? Ground beef.
A scarecrow says, "This job isn't for everyone, but hay, it's in my jeans."
A Buddhist walks up to a hot dog stand and says, "Make me one with everything."
Two birds are sitting on a perch and one says "Do you smell fish?"
The candle quit his job because he felt burned out.
Einstein developed a theory about space, and it was about time too.
I was accused of being a plagiarist, their word not mine.
Eskimos keep all of their chilled eggs inside of the egg-loo.
A magic tractor drove down the road and turned into a field!
Crossing a cement mixer and a chicken will result in you getting a brick layer.
What do you call a french pig? Porque.
The sore mummy needed a Cairo-practor
I'd tell you a chemistry joke but I know I wouldn't get a reaction.
What do you receive when you ask a lemon for help? Lemonaid.
Police were called to a daycare yesterday, where a 2-year-old was resisting a rest.
My friends say they don’t like skeleton puns. I should put more backbone into them.
Towels can’t tell jokes. They have a dry sense of humor.
I bet the person who created the door knocker won a Nobel prize.
Have you ever tried to milk a cow which has been cut in half? Udder madness.
What planet is like a circus? Saturn, it has three rings!
What do you call Samsung's security guards? Guardians of the Galaxy.
Is your refrigerator running? Better go catch it.
What should you do if you are cold? Stand in the corner. It’s 90 degrees.
I hate Russian Dolls, they are so full of themselves.
Why did the octopus beat the shark in a fight? Because it was well armed.
The shovel was a ground breaking invention.
The lumberjack loved his new computer. He especially enjoyed logging in.
We use cookies to offer you a better experience, personalize content, tailor advertising, provide social media features, and better understand the use of our services.
To learn more or modify/prevent the use of cookies, see our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy.
There’s still lots of work to be done on our list of puns about puns, but we want to know: Did you find what you were looking for? If so, great! If not, please let us know in the comments – how can we improve this article? Punpedia is built upon the suggestions made by our community – we wouldn’t be able to do it without you 🙂
While this list is as thorough and comprehensive as possible, it’s specific to funny puns. If you’re after related puns, we also have puns about puns.
If you’ve got any “pun puns” that we don’t, please share them in the comments at the end!
The Online Encyclopedia of Puns
Equivoque, paronomasia, paranomasy, repartee, malapropism, malaprop, rhetorical device, neologism, misspelling, alliteration, onomatopeia, idiomatic, rhetoric, word play, wordplay, joke, pun, puns, punning, punster, punner, portmanteau, wombination, cliche, homophone, homograph, rhyme, metonym, metonymy, polysemic, polysemes, pronunciation, mispronunciation, phonemes, word sense, ambiguous, homonym, heteronym, syllable, orthography, polyptoton, humor, humour, assonance, hyperbation, paragram, witty, wit, metalepsis, antiphrasis, ambage, hypallage, ideophone, allusion, agnomination, idiom, metaphoric, double entendre, speech error, badinage, banter, solecism
Wait, wait, wait… You’re looking for puns about puns? Well, I’m not sure what sort of apocalyptic demon you’re trying to summon here, but this is Punpedia, so I guess it’s our duty to help you out. Just know that it can be dangerous if you get too meta with your puns. Don’t go too deep!
Thanks for visiting Punpedia! 🙂✨
This list is the current, full collection of homographic and homophonic wordplay on the topic of puns. Each item either describes a direct pun (e.g. fun → pun) or a rule which can describe a set of possible puns. In the latter case, the asterisk (*) character is used to denote one or more letters.
Welcome to the Punpedia entry on funny puns! 🤡 😂 😆 This is obviously a very broad category, so we’ve tried to cover as many of our bases as possible with this entry. We’ve got jokes, one-liners and silly pun images too.
Here’s our list of funny puns! We’ve mixed groups of one-liners and jokes together and interspersed these with visual puns. If you know of any funny puns that we’re missing, please let us know in the comments at the end of this page! We hope you enjoy our list of funny puns:
As you can see our list is quite short at the moment! If you’ve got any puns about puns to donate, please post them in the comments!
Need more puns than we’ve got? How about trying your hand at inventing some! Here are a bunch words that are related to the idea of wordplay to help you come up with some original puns. Please share your creations in the comments! 🙂
Did you enjoy our list of funny puns? There were plenty of different types of wordplay here covering a wide variety of topics, so we hope that no matter what you came here for – a one-liner to use in a Facebook argument or a punny joke to use in a thread – that you were able to find it here. Let us know in the comments below, and feel free to tell us of any puns you think we missed (text and images are both welcome!).  Whether you’re after jokes for Tumblr, Reddit or for a pun thread on Twitter, we’re excited to hear from you – all of your comments help us make Punpedia better.
If people add more examples of heteronyms in the comments, I will be more content with the content of this blog.
By Hassan Mansoor
By Eva Webster  - Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, there is no shortage of bad news (murder hornets, anyone?)
However, if you look closely, there are also a lot of…
By Asher Rumack
By Beth Walker  - Social media platforms have become such an integrated part of our everyday life that we sometimes forget Facebook and Twitter…
Thanks for adding to the conversation!
Heteronyms are words spelled identically but with different meanings and pronunciations. There are lots of heteronyms in the English language. Since they have different pronunciation, you wouldn’t notice them in everyday speech.
I live to see live shows in person. This blog proved to be a good read after I read it.
As Chief Digital Officer at SAP, I'm responsible for the development, oversight, and execution of marketing strategy across our worldwide organization. I'm also personally championing SAP’s strategy of helping organizations close the gap between strategy and execution so that they can optimize business performance. I am an active member of… View full profile ›
Our comments are moderated. Your comment may not appear immediately.
This article was written for Business 2 Community by Jonathan Becher.Learn more about writing for B2C
By Ryan Shelley  - It’s no secret that Google constantly tweaks its search algorithm. While in the past, those in the SEO community would…
The local dump was so overflowing that it had to refuse refuse.
By Brian Morris
By Shane Jones
By Vivek Nair  - COVID-19 came and strangled our 2020 marketing plans and most of us are still struggling with pivoting. The biggest debate online during the initial days…
Join over 100,000 of your peers and receive our weekly newsletter which features the top trends, news and expert analysis to help keep you ahead of the curve.
By Matthew Brown  - Does your company currently measure customer satisfaction? If so, how accurate and time consuming are your measurements? With so many…
Things are a bit trickier in writing – especially if English isn’t your first language. But usually there’s enough context to figure out the right pronunciation and meaning. Here are ten examples:
Did any of these sentences trip you up?
This blog was originally posted on Manage by Walking Around on August 23, 2015.
While it’s true that repeated words usually are bad grammar, in this case there are two different words spelled identically. Read the sentence again: the first refuse is a verb meaning deny while the second is a noun meaning trash.
If you’re like most people, that sentence looks wrong. After all, it has the same word repeated twice in a row. Most of us assume it can’t be proper grammar.
By Amanda Clark  - We’ll start with the ubiquitous cliché: COVID-19 has changed everything. In the weeks, months, and years to come, we’ll all see even more clearly how…
By Kelly Forst  - The best copywriters write with two things in mind: their audience and the action they want their audience to take.…
By James Scherer
By Dana Kachan  - Be sure you're reading this because you want to make changes. The times of uncertainty are not easy for all of us. But they give…
Heteronyms are a type of homograph, which is a set of words that have the same spelling but differ in meaning and sometimes in pronunciation.
What's better to learn a term by seeing examples? Check these out:
When you're reading you just have to infer from the context of the text or the position of the word in the sentence (Is it being used as a verb or noun?) to understand which word is meant.
Bruce M. Rowe and Diane P. Levin add, "Heteronyms are homographs that are not pronounced the same. The words tear (water in the eye) and tear (to rip) are heteronyms. Notice that the words homonym, homograph, homophone, and heteronym have overlapping meanings." ("A Concise Introduction to Linguistics," 4th ed. Routledge, 2016). Compare the above examples to the word dust. Dust would not be a heteronym. It functions as a verb and a noun, but it's pronounced the same way in both usages.
Zohaib Hussain
There was an error. Please try again.
Heteronyms are not the same as homonyms, which have the same sound and spelling but different meanings. In contrast, homophones sound the same but are spelled differently. For additional examples, check out this list of " 200 Homonyms, Homophones, and Homographs" and a useful list of word-related terms, "Name That -nym."
Thank you  for signing up.
The term heteronym has multiple definitions, depending on its usage referring to grammar, its use in linguistics, or its use in literature:
It's the referee's job to record the new world record.
The winds buffet the hotel, whilst inside the guests enjoy the buffet.
As the sewer sat sewing, she smelled the stench of a local sewer.
As has been said, there are many heteronyms in the English language, and there is not space for a comprehensive list here. The list below is a selection of the words that, whilst sharing a spelling, have unique pronunciations and unique meanings.
Homonyms page
Resumé and resume
Junker: Member of Prussian aristocracy
Junker: Old car.
Plies: plural of ply
Plural of plié (ballet movement).
The button was so minute that it was a minute before I found it.
August: Eighth calendar month
August: Important.
More on heteronyms, homonyms, antonyms, synonyms, capitonyms, etc.
This sort of heteronym is not confined to noun-and-verb pairs. Here is a list of heteronyms in which one form is an adjective.
In the list which follows, all the heteronyms are the result of a word taking on two grammatical roles. An example sentence has been given for each heteronym. Try reading these out loud to spot the pronunciation differences.
Every time I sow seeds the sow digs them up and eats them.
My grandfather is aged ninety-two so he is quite aged.
Each of the three words in each group is pronounced differently from the other two.
When I graduate I will become a graduate.
Chou: Chinese dynasty
Chou: Type of pastry.
The President will recount the events that led to a vote recount.
There are hundreds of heteronyms in the English language, and they fall into several categories. On this page we will investigate true heteronyms, grammatical function heteronyms, capitonyms, accent heteronyms, and three-way heteronyms.
Extreme weather may desolate a place making it a desolate place.
Job: Author of a Biblical book
Job: Employment.
The drawer drew a picture of the cupboard and drawer.
Colon: Punctuation mark
Colon: Colonial farmer
Colon: Costa Rican monetary unit.
Grammatical Function Heteronyms
Scone: Village of central Scotland
Scone: Biscuitlike pastry.
They alternate between using the alternate machine and the main one.
Nice: French City
Nice: Pleasant.
The overture took years to perfect, but eventually it was perfect.
Autoantonyms page (words that are the opposite of themselves!)
Degas: French painter and sculptor
Degas: To remove gas.
Ron tried to intimate that Liz had an intimate relationship with Ben.
True Heteronyms
To contest the issue they held a contest.
The boy was absent because he chose to absent from school
Liver: Comedy duo The Liver Birds
Liver: Human internal organ.
Three-Way Heteronyms
During the agape, I noticed a man sitting with his mouth agape.
The unfortunate pussy cat's septic sores are very pussy.
The city dump was so full, they had to refuse to accept more refuse.
If I need a duplicate I can use the Xerox to duplicate the letter.
The doctor won't transplant a heart if the transplant is damaged.
Please put my typewriter to use because I never use it.
Lima: Capital of Peru
Lima: Type of bean.
Please excuse me while I think of an excuse.
I want you to separate the cards into two separate piles.
Manes: Deified spirits of Roman dead
Manes: Plural of mane.
These factories produce the produce that is shipped abroad.
Bases: plural of base
Plural of basis.
Begin: Russian-born Israeli politician
Begin: To start.
Lather: Foam
Lather: Worker who operates a lathe
Lather: One who uses laths.
Embarrass: River in eastern Illinois
Embarrass: Mortify.
Magdalen: Oxford college
Magdalen: Reformed prostitute.
Worms: City in southwest Germany
Worms: Plural of worm.
Male: Capital of the Maldives
Male: A gender.
The bower lived in a bower near his farm.
Read is also a heteronym because the present tense and past tense forms of the verb are pronounced differently but spelled identically: I want to read the sequel today because I read the first book yesterday.
Bund: Federation
Bund: Irrigation embankment.
It will incense the bursar that we have spent so much on incense.
Polish: Relating to Poland
Polish: To make shine.
John was content that the content of the box was undamaged.
Reading: Borough in England
Reading: Comprehending writing.
Seat: Car manufacturer
Seat: Chair.
The guard will permit you to pass if you show a valid permit.
These Grammatical Function Heteronyms have been separated from so-called True Heteronyms because heteronyms must differ in meaning. In these cases where the only notable difference is their category of speech, you could argue that their meanings are not that different at all.
Everything I know I learned from that learned old man.
My efforts to learn the ablative case have an ablative effect on my brain.
John became a convert after deciding to convert to Judaism.
I resent the fact that the letter was lost, but I have resent it.
It was appropriate for the teacher to appropriate the boy's knife.
Soles: plural of sole
Plural of sol (French coin).
Arses: plural of arse
Plural of arsis (musical term).
I broke a number of bones in my right hand
It's number than the left.
The doctor wound a bandage around the painful wound.
As: Like
As: Roman coin
As: Plural of a.
A further subcategory of this type of heteronym occurs when two different words have plurals that are spelled the same, but pronounced differently:
As the charity event proceeds, the proceeds keep pouring in.
It's much easier to grasp this idea with a few examples:
Lamé and lame
Redress: To compensate
Redress: A compensation
Redress: To dress again.
Slough: A borough in England
Slough: Dead skin of reptile.
I tried to console the controller as he stood at his console.
Rosé and rose
The lavishly decorated entrance will entrance the visitors.
Ares: God of War
Ares: Plural of metric unit of area.
Exposé and expose
Two of the above examples, abuse and use, do not change their stress pattern. The words differ by the pronunciation of the s. In one form (the verb) it is voiced like zzz, and in the other (the noun) it is voiceless like sss.
Ellipses: plural of ellipse
Plural of ellipsis (syntactic omission).
Taxes: plural of tax
Plural of taxis (locomotor response to external stimulus).
Maté and mate
Said: Egyptian port
Said: Spoken.
Accent Heteronyms
Attachés and attaches
Antonyms page
I crooked my neck to see the man with the crooked stick.
A rebel is one who has decided to rebel.
Axes: plural of ax (US spelling) or axe (British spelling)
Plural of axis.
Very often in English words are used in more than one part of speech (noun, verb, adjective, etc.).Take the word dust, for example. If you dust the bedroom, you are removing the dust. In its first occurrence here, dust is a verb meaning to clean
The second dust is a noun meaning the stuff being cleaned away. Dust in not a heteronym, however, because both forms of the word are pronounced identically. Often, though, this is not the case
When the two words differ in sound, they form a pair of heteronyms.
Rainier: Volcanic peak in Washington
Rainier: More rainy.
Asses: plural of ass
Plural of as (Roman coin).
Tell the Polish cleaners to polish the floor.
Can you think of more heteronyms?
Do you notice anything about the pairs above? In every case one of the heteronyms is a noun and the other is a verb. In most cases, the difference in pronunciation is simply a matter of stress or emphasis. In fact, a deeper pattern emerges if you study which of the syllables are stressed in these sentences. Look at the two-syllable words and you will see that in almost every case the noun is stressed on the first syllable, and the verb is stressed on the second (e.g. noun: CON-test
Verb: con-TEST).
Occasionally foreign words accepted into use in English retain their diacritical marks (accents). However, as English does not make use of diacritical marks, it is generally considered acceptable to omit them. If the adopted word is spelled the same as an existing English word, but pronounced differently, then a heteronym is born. Here are a few examples:
Tang: Chinese dynasty
Tang: Sharp Flavour.
Pâté and pate
Capitonyms are not really True Heteronyms for two reasons. First, the capitalised forms are proper nouns, and as such may not be found in standard dictionaries. Second, a pair of heteronyms must be spelled identically. It is arguable that there is a graphological difference between a word that must be capitalized and one that must not.
Pate: Head
Pate: Paste
Pate: Meat spread.
You can insult someone by shouting an insult.
When people abuse drugs this is called drug abuse.
I stood on the bow of the ship with my bow and arrow.
Related Pages
As my mother moped about, a man on a moped rode by.
Natal: Region of southeast Africa
Natal: Relating to birth.
Ewe: A people and language Africa
Ewe: Female sheep.
Do you know anyone else who would enjoy this? Email this page to a friend.Also: Sign up for our free web site updates here.
Oronyms and homophones
Hopefully the wind will be strong enough to wind the windmill.
Pliés and plies
Capitonym is not a word that you will find in the dictionary, but it has been used to describe words that change their pronunciation and meaning when capitalized. They are thus a form of heteronym. Here is a selection of capitonyms, complete with brief definitions:
Here are 15 interesting heteronyms in English:
Lead can be used to protect against radiation. It is poisonous if ingested.
Torn wrapping paper
It’s a windy day!
Learn more about the Vocabulary Builder Course
A dove
Image sources:
He wound the bandage around my leg.
Heteronyms in English are two words with the same spelling, but different pronunciations and different meanings.
Nail polish and shoe polish
Vocabulary Builder Course
Two common examples are the words close and live:
Walking in the desert
